Corporate Issuers
共享题干题
【题干】Modern Auto, an automobile parts supplier, has made an offer to acquire Sky Systems,
creator of software for the airline industry. The offer is to pay Sky Systems' shareholders the
current market value of their stock in Modern Auto's stock. The relevant information it used in
those calculations is given below:
Although the total earnings of the combined company will not increase and are estimated to be
$130 million, Charles Wilhelm (treasurer of Modern Auto) argues that there are two attractive
reasons to merge. First, Wilhelm says, “The merger of Modern Auto and Sky Systems will result
in lower risk for our shareholders because of the diversification effect.” Second, Wilhelm
also says, “If our EPS increases, our stock price will increase in line with the EPS increase
because our P/E will stay the same.”Sky Systems managers are not interested in the offer by
Modern Auto. The managers, instead, approach HiFly, Inc., which is in the same industry as Sky
Systems, to see if it would be interested in acquiring Sky Systems. HiFly is interested, and
both companies believe there will be synergies from this acquisition. If HiFly were to acquire
Sky Systems, it would do so by paying $400 million in cash.
 
1.【单项选择题】The acquisition of Sky Systems by Modern Auto and the acquisition of Sky
Systems by HiFly, respectively, would be examples of a:
A.vertical merger and a horizontal merger.
B.conglomerate merger and a vertical merger.
C.conglomerate merger and a horizontal merger.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】汽车零部件供应商，飞机行业软件设计商，跨行业，合并是企业集团合并。HiFly,Inc.和Sky
System是同行业，合并是横向合并。
 
2.【单项选择题】If Sky Systems were to be acquired by Modern Auto under the terms of the
original offer, the post-merger EPS of the new company would be closest to:
A.$2.00.
B.$2.32.
C.$2.63.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】EPS is $2.63.Because Modern Auto's stock price is $40 and Sky Systems' stock price
is $25, Modern Auto will acquire Sky Systems by exchanging 1 of its shares for 40/25 = 1.60
shares of Sky Systems. There are 15 million shares of Sky Systems. Their acquisition will take
15/1.60 = 9.375 million shares of Modern Auto. The total number of shares after the merger =
49.375 million. The EPS after the merger = 130/49.375 = $2.63.
 
3.【单项选择题】Are Wilhelm's two statements about his shareholders benefiting from the
diversification effect of the merger and about the increase in the stock price, respectively,
correct?
A.The Merger Will Result in Lower Risk for Shareholders：No; Stock Price Will Increase in Line
with the EPS Increase：No.
B.The Merger Will Result in Lower Risk for Shareholders：No; Stock Price Will Increase in Line
with the EPS Increase：Yes.
C.The Merger Will Result in Lower Risk for Shareholders：Yes; Stock Price Will Increase in Line
with the EPS Increase：No.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Both of the statements by Wilhelm are wrong.The first statement is wrong because
diversification by itself does not lower risk for shareholders. Investors can diversify very
cheaply on their own by purchasing stocks of different companies (for example, a Modern Auto
shareholder could purchase stocks of Sky Systems).The second statement is also wrong. The P/E
ratio will not necessarily remain the same following the merger and is more likely to decline.
The pre-merger P/E for Modern Auto is 40/2.50 = 16. After the merger, the EPS would be $130
million/49.375 million shares, or 2.6329. The post-merger P/E will probably fall to 40/2.6329 =
15.19.
 
 
4.【单项选择题】Which of the following defenses best describes the role of HiFly in the
acquisition scenario?
A.Crown jewel.
B.Pac-Man.
C.White knight.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Sky Systems表示并不想被Modern Auto收购，Sky Systems和HiFly是同一行业且HiFly愿意以一
个合理的价格收购Sky Systems，则HiFly是一个白衣骑士。
 
5.【单项选择题】Suppose HiFly acquires Sky Systems for the stated terms. The gain to Sky
Systems shareholders resulting from the merger transaction would be closest to:
A.$25 million.
B.$160 million.
C.$375 million.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Target shareholders' gain = Premium = PT-VTPT= Price paid for the target company =
$400 million as provided in the vignetteVT= Pre-merger value of the target = $25 share price ×
15 million shares = $375 million $400 million – $375 million = $25 million
 
【题干】María Hernández is a sell-side analyst covering the electronics industry in Spain. One
of the companies she follows, SG Electronics, S.A., has recently announced plans to begin
producing and selling a new series of video cameras. Hernández estimates that this project will
increase the value of the company and, consequently, she plans on changing her research opinion
on the company from a “hold” to a “buy.” Her initial financial predictions for the project
are:● Fixed capital equipment outlay is €2,750,000.● At the beginning of the project, a
required increase in current assets of €200,000 and a required increase in current liabilities
of €125,000.● Straight-line depreciation to zero over a five-year life.● Project life of
five years.● Incremental annual unit sales of 3,000 at a unit price of €600.● Annual fixed
cash expenses of €125,000; variable cash expenses of €125 per unit.● The capital equipment
is expected to be sold for €450,000 at the end of Year 5. At the end of the project, the net
working capital investment will be recovered.● Tax rate of 40 percent.● Based on the capital
asset pricing model, the required rate of return is 12 percent.Hernández estimates the expected
net present value (NPV) of the project to be €975,538 and the internal rate of return (IRR) to
be 24.6 percent. She also performs a sensitivity analysis by changing the input variable
assumptions used in her initial analysis.When reviewing Hernández's work, her supervisor,
Arturo Costa, notes that she did not include changes in the depreciation method, initial fixed
capital outlay, or inflation assumptions in her sensitivity analysis. As a result, Costa asks
the following questions:Question 1“What would be the effect on the project's NPV if the
initial fixed capital equipment outlay increased from €2,750,000 to €3,000,000, everything
else held constant?”Question 2“How would a higher than expected inflation rate affect the
value of the real tax savings from depreciation and the value of the real after-tax interest
expense, everything else held constant?”Question 3“You are using a required rate of return of
12 percent when the company's weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is 10 percent. Why are
you using a required rate of return for the project greater than the company's WACC?”Before
ending the meeting, Costa tells Hernández: “Last year the company produced a prototype at a
cost of €500,000. Now management is having doubts about the market appeal of the product in
its current design, and so they are considering delaying the start of the project for a year,
until the prototype can be shown to industry experts.”
 
6.【单项选择题】Using Hernández's initial financial predictions, the estimated annual after-tax
operating cash flow is closestto:
A.€780,000.
B.€1,000,000.
C.€1,075,000.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Using equationCF = (S – C) × (1 – T) T×D, the numbers are:Sales = P × Q =
€600 × 3,000 = €1,800,000Costs = Variable cost × Q Fixed costs = (125 × 3,000) €125,000 =
500,000Depreciation expense = €2,750,000 ÷ 5 = €550,000CF = (1,800,000– 500,000) × (1 –
0.40) (550,000 × 0.40)= 780,000 220,000 = €1,000,000.
 
 
7.【单项选择题】Using Hernández's initial financial predictions, the estimated terminal year
after-tax non-operating cash flow is closest to:
A.€195,000.
B.€270,000.
C.€345,000.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The terminal year non-operating cash flow includes the after-tax salvage value and
the recovery of net working capital = €450,000 × (1 – 0.40) + €75,000 = €345,000.(Note:
Terminal year recovery of net working capital investment = Decrease in current assets –
Decrease in current liabilities = €200,000 – €125,000 = €75,000.)
 
 
8.【单项选择题】Hernández's best response to Costa's first question is that the project's NPV
would decrease by an amountclosest to:
A.€142,000.
B.€178,000.
C.€250,000.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Calculations: The outlay is higher by €250,000, which will increase annual
depreciation by €50,000 over the 5-year period. The annual additional tax savings from the
higher depreciation expense is: 50,000 × (0.40) = 20,000. Therefore NPV should decrease by:
 
 
 
9.【单项选择题】Hernández's best response to Costa's second question is that:
A.real tax savings from depreciation and real interest expense would be lower.
B.real tax savings from depreciation would be higher and real interest expense would be lower.
C.real tax savings from depreciation would be lower and real interest expense would be higher.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Higher than expected inflation increases the corporation's real taxes because it
reduces the value of the depreciation tax shelter; it also decreases the real interest expense
because payments to bondholders in real terms are lower than expected.
 
10.【单项选择题】Hernández's best response to Costa's third question is: “Because:
A.the project will plot above the security market line.”
B.the project's beta is greater than the company's beta.”
C.the project's IRR is greater than the required rate of return.”
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】When a project is more or less risky than the company, project beta and not WACC
should be used to establish the required rate of return for the capital project. In this case,
the required rate of return is greater than the WACC, which means the project beta (risk) is
greater than the company's beta.
 
11.【单项选择题】Should Costa's end-of-meeting comments result in changes to Hernández's
capital budgeting analysis?
A.No.
B.Yes, but only to incorporate the possible delay.
C.Yes, to incorporate both the possible delay and the cost of producing the prototype.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Timing options (e.g., delay investing) should be included in the NPV analysis, but
sunk costs should not.
【题干】Mark Zin and Stella Lee are CEO and CFO, respectively, of Moonbase Corporation. They
are concerned that Moonbase is undervalued and subject to a hostile takeover bid. To assess the
value of their own firm, they are reviewing current financial data for Jupiter PLC, Saturn
Corporation, and Voyager Corporation, three firms they believe are comparable to Moonbase.
Zin believes Moonbase should trade at similar multiples to these firms and that each valuation
ratio measure is equally valid. Moonbase has a current stock price of $34.00 per share,
earnings of $1.75 per share, book value of $8.50 per share, and cash flow of $3.20 per share.
Using the average of each of the three multiples for the three comparable firms, Zin finds that
Moonbase is undervalued.Lee states that the low valuation reflects current poor performance of
a subsidiary of Moonbase. She recommends that the board of directors consider divesting the
subsidiary in a manner that would provide cash inflow to Moonbase.Zin proposes that some action
should be taken before a hostile takeover bid is made. He asks Lee if changes can be made to
the corporate governance structure in order to make it more difficult for an unwanted suitor to
succeed.In response, Lee makes two comments of actions that would make a hostile takeover more
difficult. Lee's first comment is “Moonbase can institute a poison pill that allows our
shareholders, other than the hostile bidder, to purchase shares at a substantial discount to
current market value.” Lee's second comment is: “Moonbase can instead institute a poison put.
The put allows shareholders the opportunity to redeem their shares at a substantial premium to
current market value.”Zin is also concerned about the general attitude of outside investors
with the governance of Moonbase. He has read brokerage reports indicating that the Moonbase
governance ratings are generally low. Zin believes the following statements describe
characteristics that should provide Moonbase with a strong governance rating.Statement 1:
Moonbase's directors obtain advice from the corporate counsel to aid them in assessing the
firm's compliance with regulatory requirements.Statement 2: Five of the ten members of the
board of directors are not employed by Moonbase and are considered independent. Though not
employed by the company, two of the independent directors are former executives of the company
and thus can contribute useful expertise relevant for the business.Statement 3: The audit
committee of the board is organized so as to have sufficient resources to carry out its task,
with an internal staff that reports routinely and directly to the audit committee.Zin is
particularly proud of the fact that Moonbase has begun drafting a “Statement of Corporate
Governance” (SCG) that will be available on the company website for viewing by shareholders,
investment analysts, and any interested stakeholders. In particular, the SCG pays special
attention to policies that ensure effective contributions from the board of directors. These
policies include the following:Policy 1: Training is provided to directors prior to joining the
board and periodically thereafter.Policy 2: Statements are provided of management's assessment
of the board's performance of its fiduciary responsibilities.Policy 3: Statements are provided
of directors' responsibilities regarding oversight and monitoring of the firm's risk management
and compliance functions.Zin concludes the discussion by announcing that Johann Steris, a
highly regarded ex-CFO of a major corporation, is under consideration as a member of an
expanded board of directors. Zin states that Steris meets all the requirements as an
independent director including the fact that he will not violate the interlocking directorship
requirement. Steris also will bring experience as a member of the compensation committee of the
board of another firm. He also comments that Steris desires to serve on either the audit or
compensation committee of the Moonbase board and that good governance practice suggests that
Steris would not be prohibited from serving on either committee.
 
12.【单项选择题】The value the CEO estimated based on comparable company analysis is closest
to:
A.$37.33.
B.$39.30.
C.$40.80.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Value is $39.30.Average P/E ratio is 21.33 = (23.00 + 19.50 + 21.50)/3Value based
on P/E ratio = 21.33 (1.75) = 37.33Average P/B ratio is 4.80 = (4.24 + 5.25 + 4.91)/3Value
based on P/B ratio = 4.80 (8.50) = 40.80Average P/CF ratio is 12.43 = (12.60 + 11.40 +
13.30)/3Value based on P/CF ratio = 12.43 (3.20) = 39.79Since Zin believes each valuation ratio
is equally valid, value is a simple average of the three values.Value = (37.33 + 40.80 +
39.79)/3 = 39.30
 
 
13.【单项选择题】The divestiture technique that Lee is recommending is most likely:
A.a spin-off.
B.a split-off.
C.an equity carve-out.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】An equity carve-out involves sale of equity in a new legal entity to outsiders, and
would thus result in a cash inflow for Moonbase. A spin-off or a split-off does not generate a
cash flow to the firm.
 
14.【单项选择题】With regard to poison pills and puts, Lee's comments are:
A.correct.
B.incorrect with regard to the poison put.
C.incorrect with regard to the poison pill.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】The first comment about the poison pill is correct, but the second comment is
incorrect. Shareholders do not “put” their shares to the company; rather bondholders can
exercise the put in the event of a hostile takeover. Bondholders have the right to sell their
bonds back to the target at a redemption price that is pre-specified in the bond indenture,
typically at or above par value.
 
15.【单项选择题】Which statement by Zin provides the most support for a strong governance
rating?
A.Statement 1
B.Statement 2
C.Statement 3
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Statement 3 provides the most support for a strong governance rating. The statement
describes the manner in which the audit committee should work. The other two statements do not
support a strong governance rating as each casts doubt about the independence of the board from
management's control.
 
16.【单项选择题】Which policy of the Statement of Corporate Governance is least likely to
ensure effective contributions from the board of directors?
A.Policy 1
B.Policy 2
C.Policy 3
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】The second policy is least likely to ensure effective contributions from the board.
The board through self-assessment, and not management, should assess the board’s performance.
 
17.【单项选择题】Is Zin's comment that good governance practice does not preclude Steris from
serving on either of the two committees of the Moonbase board correct?
A.Yes.
B.No, good governance practice precludes Steris from serving on the audit committee.
C.No, good governance practice precludes Steris from serving on the compensation committee.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】As an independent director, without an interlocking relationship and with the
expertise required, Steris would be eligible to serve on either of the two committees.
 
【题干】Karen Maghami is a portfolio manager for a mutual fund. Maghami, working with analyst
Marcel Lynbrock, is researching two companies: Syvie Electric and EnileGEN. Located in the same
country, both companies produce electricity from conventional and renewable sources. Maghami
wants to integrate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors into the analysis of
each company’s financial statements.Syvie Electric is a stock exchange- listed, state- owned
enterprise (SOE). The sovereign government holds 58% of shares; remaining shares are publicly
traded. EnileGEN is a public company owned primarily by institutional investors.Lynbrock starts
with an analysis of corporate governance factors. Relevant information about the two companies
is summarized in Exhibit 1.
After reviewing the corporate governance information, Maghami and Lynbrock focus on factors
related to environmental and social considerations. Lynbrock asks Maghami, “What resource
would you recommend using to find a list of ESG factors material to the electricity generation
sector?”Next, Maghami and Lynbrock discuss the effect of expected regulatory changes on stock
and bond values for both companies. The government recently announced that it intends to
authorize a new environmental regulation requiring that a minimum of 35% of electricity be
produced from renewable sources. ?The exact timing of the new regulation is unknown, but
EnileGEN already exceeds the minimum level by a significant margin. Maghami notes that the new
regulation should give EnileGEN a competitive edge in the industry, and for scenario analysis
purposes, she asks Lynbrock to assume that the regulation will take effect in two years.
Lynbrock uses a discounted cash flow model to value EnileGEN stock under the assumption
requested by Maghami.Lynbrock believes that the new regulation will make three of Syvie
Electric’s coal-fired power stations no longer financially viable within 10 years following
implementation. Maghami asks Lynbrock to estimate the potential effect on Syvie Electric’s
balance sheet and the potential impact on the value of Syvie Electric bonds.Maghami reads in
Syvie Electric’s most recent financial statements that the company plans to issue green bonds.
Maghami asks Lynbrock to evaluate any possible valuation risks or opportunities associated with
green bonds. Lynbrock tells Maghami the following:Statement 1: Green bonds offer higher
protection for an investor because they typically are backed by the income derived from the
environmental project they are used to fund.Statement 2: Issuing green bonds ensures a lower
cost of capital because the green feature typically results in a tighter credit spread compared
with conventional bonds.Statement 3: A unique risk related to green bonds is greenwashing,
which is the risk that the bond’s proceeds are not actually used for a beneficial
environmental or climate-related project.
 
18.【单项选择题】Based on Exhibit 1 and their ownership structures, market scrutiny of Syvie
Electric’s management is most likely:
A.lower than EnileGEN.
B.the same as EnileGEN.
C.higher than EnileGEN.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Syvie Electric is a listed SOE with a mixed-ownership model in which 58% of the
shares are owned by a sovereign government. The remaining shares trade on a public stock
market. A mixed-ownership model tends to have lower market scrutiny of management than that of
corporate ownership models. Additionally, Syvie Electric has a lower percentage of directors
with industry experience compared to EnileGEN. A board with experience that is not directly
related to the company’s core operations may lack sufficient expertise to govern. EnileGEN’s
shares are owned primarily by institutional investors. Even though EnileGEN has dispersed
ownership, institutional investors can promote good corporate governance by holding a
company’s board and management accountable when the board or management does not appear to be
acting in the best interests of shareholders. Consequently, market scrutiny of Syvie
Electric’s management is most likely lower compared with EnileGEN.
 
19.【单项选择题】Based on the ownership structures of Syvie Electric and EnileGEN, a
principal–principal problem is most likely to occur in the case of:
A.only EnileGEN.
B.only Syvie Electric.
C.both Syvie Electric and EnileGEN.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Syvie Electric’s largest shareholder owns 58% of the shares; therefore, the
company can be described as having concentrated ownership and concentrated voting power. The
combination of concentrated ownership and concentrated voting power is generally associated
with controlling shareholders maintaining a position of power over both managers and minority
shareholders, known as a principal–principal problem. EnileGEN’s largest stockholder owns 9%
of shares; hence, the company can be classified as having dispersed ownership. EnileGEN also
has a straight voting policy, which results in each of the shareholders having one vote per
share; thus, EnileGEN also has dispersed voting power. The combination of dispersed ownership
and dispersed voting power is generally associated with shareholders who lack the power to
exercise control over managers. This conflict is known as a principal–agent problem.
Consequently, the principal–principal problem is most likely to occur in Syvie Electric, not
in EnileGEN.
 
20.【单项选择题】Based on Exhibit 1, which of the following statements is correct?
A.Due to also being on the board, the EnileGEN CEO has two votes for each share owned.
B.In the case of managerial misconduct, EnileGEN may be able to recover previously paid
remuneration.
C.Syvie Electric’s corporate structure can be described as having concentrated ownership and
dispersed voting power.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】EnileGEN has a clawback policy, which allows a company to recover previously paid
remuneration if certain events—such as financial restatements, misconduct, breach of the law,
or risk management deficiencies— are uncovered. Consequently, EnileGEN may be able to recover
previously paid remuneration from management in case of misconduct.
A is incorrect because even though EnileGEN’s CEO also serves as chair of the board (CEO
duality), the CEO does not hold dual-class shares because the company has a straight voting
policy (i.e., one share, one vote). Consequently, the CEO of EnileGEN does not have two votes
for each share.
C is incorrect because Syvie Electric has concentrated ownership and concentrated voting power
(58% of shares are owned by a single shareholder). Consequently, Syvie Electric’s ownership
structure cannot be described as concentrated ownership with dispersed voting power.
 
21.【单项选择题】In response to Maghami’s ESG question, Lynbrock should most likely recommend
using:
A.the SASB Materiality Map.
B.the Green Bond Principles.
C.each company’s sustainability report.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Maghami wants to find a resource that lists ESG factors material to the electricity
generation sector. In an ESG context, materiality typically refers to ESG-related issues that
are expected to a?ect a company’s operations, its financial performance, and the valuation of
its securities. The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (the SASB) seeks to promote
uniform accounting standards for sustainability reporting. For this purpose, the SASB developed
the SASB Materiality Map, which lists relevant ESG-related, sector-specific factors that the
organization deems to be material.
B is incorrect because the Green Bond Principles are voluntary standards to guide issuers in
the determination of labeling a bond green. The Green Bond Principles do not provide a list of
ESG-related factors that are material to a specific sector.
C is incorrect because companies’ definitions of materiality in an ESG context may di?er in
usefulness. For example, some companies may use the term “material” in emphasizing positive
ESG information even though such information may have little impact on the company’s
operations or financial performance. Other companies may minimize or not report negative ESG
information that investors might consider material. Consequently, a company’s sustainability
report is not as likely as a SASB Materiality Map to provide a list of ESG-related factors that
are material to a specific sector.
 
22.【单项选择题】To reflect the effect of the regulatory scenario requested by Maghami on
EnileGEN’s stock value, Lynbrock should:
A.increase the credit spread.
B.decrease the discount rate.
C.increase projected operating costs.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】For scenario analysis purposes, Maghami asks Lynbrock to assume that the new
environmental regulation will take effect in two years. In equity security analysis, ESG-
related factors are often analyzed in the context of forecasting financial metrics and ratios,
by adjusting valuation model variables (e.g., discount rate), or using sensitivity and/or
scenario analysis. Lynbrock should decrease the discount rate given that EnileGEN should have a
competitive edge over its competitors due to the new environmental regulation.
A is incorrect because Lynbrock is estimating the expected effect of the new environmental
regulation on EnileGEN’s stock, not bond, value. Additionally, to justify a credit spread
increase, the risk for a company would have to increase. Instead, the anticipated environmental
regulation should give EnileGEN a competitive edge, thereby reducing risk.
C is incorrect because the new environmental regulation should not impact EnileGEN’s operating
costs. The company already exceeds the minimum percentage of renewably sourced electric
production expected to be required by the new regulation.
 
23.【单项选择题】To reflect the effect of the new regulation on Syvie Electric’s balance
sheet, Lynbrock should:
A.increase terminal value.
B.increase impaired assets.
C.decrease capital expenditures.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Syvie Electric is facing risk from stranded assets—that is, assets that are
obsolete or not economically viable owing to changes in regulatory or government policy. ESG-
related adjustments to a company’s balance sheet often reflect an analyst’s estimate of
impaired assets. A is incorrect because adjusting terminal value applies to equity valuation;
it is not an adjustment to a company’s balance sheet.
C is incorrect because decreasing capital expenditures would be reflected in the income and
cash flow statements, not the balance sheet.
 
24.【单项选择题】Under the regulatory scenario requested by Maghami, Lynbrock should increase
the credit spread of a Syvie Electric 10-year bond:
A.less than the spread of a 2-year bond.
B.by the same amount as the spread of a 2-year bond.
C.more than the spread of a 2-year bond.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Syvie Electric is facing risk from stranded assets—that is, assets that are
obsolete or not economically viable owing to changes in regulatory or government policy. The
new environmental regulation is expected to be in effect in 2 years, so a 10-year bond will be
more negatively impacted than a current 2-year bond. To reflect this, Lynbrock should increase
the credit spread of the 10-year bond more than the spread of the 2-year bond.
 
25.【单项选择题】Which of Lynbrock’s statements about green bonds is correct?
A.Statement 1
B.Statement 2
C.Statement 3
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Statement 3 is correct because one unique risk of green bonds is greenwashing,
which is the risk that the bond’s proceeds are not actually used for a beneficial
environmental or climate-related project. Greenwashing can result in an investor overpaying for
a bond (if the investor paid a premium for the bond’s green feature) or holding a bond that
does not satisfy a prescribed environmental or climate investment mandate.
A is incorrect because Statement 1 is incorrect. Green bonds are typically similar to an
issuer’s conventional bonds, with the exception that the bond proceeds are earmarked for green
projects. Green bonds normally have the same credit ratings and bondholder recourse as
conventional bonds of the same issuer (all else being equal).
B is incorrect because Statement 2 is incorrect. It is true that some green bonds command a
premium, or tighter credit spread, versus comparable conventional bonds because of high market
demand. This would reduce a company’s cost of capital. However, issuing green bonds does not
always ensure a lower cost of capital for a company because green bonds are typically similar
to an issuer’s conventional bonds. Green bonds normally have the same credit ratings and
bondholder recourse as conventional bonds of the same issuer. Furthermore, green bonds may be
less liquid than conventional bonds, such that they don’t command a premium from investors.
Green bonds also have higher reporting and monitoring costs than conventional bonds, thus
potentially resulting in higher costs for the issuer.
 
【题干】The capital budgeting committee for Laroache Industries is meeting. Laroache is a North
American conglomerate that has several divisions. One of these divisions, Laroache Livery,
operates a large fleet of vans. Laroache’s management is evaluating whether it is optimal to
operate new vans for two, three, or four years before replacing them. The managers have
estimated the investment outlay, annual after-tax operating expenses, and after-tax salvage
cash flows for each of the service lives. Because revenues and some operating costs are
unaffected by the choice of service life, they were ignored in the analysis. Laroache Livery’s
opportunity cost of funds is 10 percent. The following table gives the cash flows in thousands
of Canadian dollars (C$).
Schoeman Products, another division of Laroache, has evaluated several investment projects and
now must choose the subset of them that fits within its C$40 million capital budget. The
outlays and NPVs for the six projects are given below. Schoeman cannot buy fractional projects
and must buy all or none of a project. The currency amounts are in millions of Canadian
dollars.
Schoeman wants to determine which subset of the six projects is optimal.A final proposal comes
from the division Society Services, which has an investment opportunity with a real option to
invest further if conditions warrant. The crucial details are as follows:The original project:
An outlay of C$190 million at time zero.Cash flows of C$40 million per year for Years 1–10 if
demand is “high.”Cash flows of C$20 million per year for Years 1–10 if demand is
“low.”Additional cash flows with the optional expansion project:An outlay of C$190 million at
time one.Cash flows of C$40 million per year for Years 2–10 if demand is “high.”Cash flows
of C$20 million per year for Years 2–10 if demand is “low.”Whether demand is “high” or
“low” in Years 1–10 will be revealed during the first year. The probability of “high”
demand is 0.50, and the probability of “low” demand is 0.50.The option to make the expansion
investment depends on making the initial investment. If the initial investment is not made, the
option to expand does not exist.The required rate of return is 10 percent.Society Services
wants to evaluate its investment alternatives.The internal auditor for Laroache Industries has
made several suggestions for improving capital budgeting processes at the company. The internal
auditor’s suggestions are as follows:Suggestion 1“In order to put all capital budgeting
proposals on an equal footing, the projects should all use the risk-free rate for the required
rate of return.”Suggestion 2“Because you cannot exercise both of them, you should not permit
a given project to have both an abandonment option and an expansion/growth option.”Suggestion
3“When rationing capital, it is better to choose the portfolio of investments that maximizes
the company NPV than the portfolio that maximizes the company IRR.”Suggestion 4“Project betas
should be used for establishing the required rate of return whenever the project’s beta is
different from the company’s beta.”
 
26.【单项选择题】What is the optimal service life for Laroche Livery’s fleet of vans?
A.Two years.
B.Three years.
C.Four years.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】The way to solve the problem is to calculate the equivalent annual annuity and
choose the service life with the lowest annual cost. For a two-year service life, the NPV is:
The EAA (PV = –46,776.86, N = 2, and i = 10%) is –26,952.38.For a three-year service life,
the NPV is:
The EAA (PV = –65,559.73, N = 3, and i = 10%) is –26,362.54.For a four-year service life, the
NPV is:
The EAA (PV = –87,211.26, N = 4, and i = 10%) is –27,512.61.The three-year service life has
the lowest annual cost. Laroche should replace the vans every three years.
 
 
27.【单项选择题】The optimal subset of the six projects that Schoeman is considering consists
of Projects:
A.1 and 5.
B.2, 3, and 4.
C.2, 4, 5, and 6.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】To help the selection process, use the profitability index for each project, which
shows the total present value per dollar invested.
Try to incorporate the high PI projects into the budget using trial and error. These trials
include the following:
Among the sets of projects suggested, the optimal set is the one with the highest NPV, provided
its total outlay does not exceed C$40 million. The set consisting of Projects 1 and 5 produces
the highest NPV.
 
 
28.【单项选择题】What is the NPV (C$ millions) of the original project for Society Services
without considering the expansion option?
A.–6.11.
B.–5.66.
C.2.33.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】If demand is “high,” the NPV is:
If demand is “low,” the NPV is:
The expected NPV is 0.50×(55.783) + 0.50×(–67.109) = –C$5.663 million
 
29.【单项选择题】What is the NPV (C$ millions) of the optimal set of investment decisions for
Society Services including the expansion option?
A.6.34.
B.12.68.
C.31.03.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Assume we are at time = 1. The NPV of the expansion (at time 1) if demand is
“high” is:
The NPV of the expansion (at time 1) if demand is “low” is:
The optimal decision is to expand if demand is “high” and not expand if “low.” Because the
expansion option is exercised only when its value is positive, which happens 50 percent of the
time, the expected value of the expansion project, at time zero, is
The total NPV of the initial project and the expansion project isNPV = –C$5.663 million +
C$18.346 million = C$12.683 millionThe optional expansion project, handled optimally, adds
sufficient value to make this a positive NPV project.
 
 
30.【单项选择题】Should the capital budgeting committee accept the internal auditor’s first
and second suggestions, respectively?
A.No for Suggestions 1 and 2.
B.No for Suggestion 1 and Yes for Suggestion 2.
C.Yes for Suggestion 1 and No for Suggestion 2.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Both suggestions are bad. In valuing projects, expected cash flows should be
discounted at required rates of return that reflect their risk, not at a risk-free rate that
ignores risk. Even though both options cannot be simultaneously exercised, they can both add
value. If demand is high, you can exercise the growth option, and if demand is low, you can
exercise the abandonment option.
 
31.【单项选择题】Should the capital budgeting committee accept the internal auditor’s third
and fourth suggestions, respectively?
A.No for Suggestions 3 and 4.
B.Yes for Suggestions 3 and 4.
C.No for Suggestion 3 and Yes for Suggestion 4.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Both suggestions are good. Choosing projects with high might cause the company to
concentrate on short-term projects that reduce the NPV of the company. Whenever the project
risk differs from the company risk, a project-specific required rate of return should be used.
 
【题干】Janet Wu is treasurer of Wilson Paper Company, a manufacturer of paper products for the
office and school markets. Wilson Paper is selling one of its divisions for $70 million cash.
Wu is considering whether to recommend a special dividend of $70 million or a repurchase of 2
million shares of Wilson common stock in the open market. She is reviewing some possible
effects of the buyback with the company's financial analyst. Wilson has a long-term record of
gradually increasing earnings and dividends. Wilson's board has also approved capital spending
of $15 million to be entirely funded out of this year's earnings.
 
32.【单项选择题】Wilson's share buyback could be a signal that the company:
A.is decreasing its financial leverage.
B.views its shares as undervalued in the marketplace.
C.has more investment opportunities than it could fund internally.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Management sometimes undertakes share repurchases when it views shares as being
undervalued in the marketplace.
 
33.【单项选择题】The most likely tax environment in which Wilson Paper's shareholders would
prefer that Wilson repurchase its shares (share buybacks) instead of paying dividends is one in
which:
A.the tax rate on capital gains and dividends is the same.
B.capital gains tax rates are higher than dividend income tax rates.
C.capital gains tax rates are lower than dividend income tax rates.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Shareholders would prefer that the company repurchase its shares instead of paying
dividends when the tax rate on capital gains is lower than the tax rate on dividends.
 
【题干】Carlos Velasquez, CFA, is a financial analyst with Embelesado, S.A., a Spanish
manufacturer of sailboats and sailing equipment. Velasquez is evaluating a proposal for
Embelesado to build sailboats for a foreign competitor that lacks production capacity and sells
in a different market. The sailboat project is perceived to have the same risk as Embelesado's
other projects.The proposal covers a limited time horizon—three years—after which the
competitor expects to be situated in a new, larger production facility. The limited time
horizon appeals to Embelesado, which currently has excess capacity but expects to begin its own
product expansion in slightly more than three years.Velasquez has collected much of the
information necessary to evaluate this proposal in Exhibits 1 and 2.
Velasquez recognizes that Embelesado is currently financed at its target capital structure and
expects that the capital structure will be maintained if the sailboat project is undertaken.
Embelesado's managers disagree, however, about the method that should be used to evaluate
capital budgeting proposals.One of Embelesado's vice presidents asks Velasquez the following
questions:Question 1Will projects that meet a corporation's payback criterion for acceptance
necessarily have a positive net present value (NPV)?Question 2For mutually exclusive projects,
will the NPV and internal rate of return (IRR) methods necessarily agree on project
ranking?Question 3For the sailboat project, what will be the effects of using accelerated
depreciation (for both book and tax accounting) instead of straight-line depreciation on a) the
NPV and b) the total net cash flow in the terminal year?Question 4Assuming a 13 percent
discount rate, what will be the increase in the sailboat project's NPV if the expected market
value of the facility at end of project is €15 million rather than €5 million?
 
34.【单项选择题】The weighted average cost of capital for Embelesado is closest to:
A.10.78%.
B.11.20%.
C.11.85%.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】The weighted average cost of capital for Embelesado is calculated as:WACC=(Market
weight of debt×After-tax cost of debt)=(Market weight of equity×Cost of equity)WACC = wd kd
×(1 – T) wcs kcs=0.231×(8.0%)×(1 – 0.35) 0.769×(13.0%)= 1.201% 9.997%WACC = 11.198% =
11.20%
 
 
35.【单项选择题】The total net cash flow (in € Millions) for the sailboat project in its
terminal year is closest to:
A.33.00.
B.39.75.
C.43.00.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The terminal year cash flow is:
 
 
 
36.【单项选择题】The IRR for the sailboat project is closest to:
A.18.5%.
B.19.7%.
C.20.3%.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】This is the IRR for a project with the following cash flows: (€70,000) in Year 0,
€29,750 at Years 1 and 2, and €43,000 at Year 3.
 
 
 
37.【单项选择题】The best responses that Velasquez can make to Question 1 and Question 2 are:
A.No No
B.No Yes
C.Yes No
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Projects with shorter paybacks do not necessarily have a positive NPV. For mutually
exclusive projects, the NPV and IRR criteria will not necessarily provide the same project
ranking.
 
38.【单项选择题】In response to Question 3, what are the most likely effects on the NPV and the
total net cash flow in the terminal year, respectively?
A.Increase Increase
B.Increase Decrease
C.Decrease Increase
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Additional depreciation in earlier time periods will shield Embelesado from
additional taxes, thus increasing the net cash flows in earlier years of the project and
increasing the project's NPV. However, this also means that there will be less depreciation
expense in the terminal year of the project, thus shielding less income and increasing taxes.
Terminal-year net cash flow will likely decrease.
 
39.【单项选择题】In response to Question 4, the increase in the sailboat project's NPV(in €
Millions) is closest to:
A.4.50.
B.6.50.
C.6.76.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The entire €10 million will be subject to taxes, resulting in an additional €6.5
million after taxes. As indicated below, when discounted at 13 percent for three years, this
has a present value of €4.5048 (rounded to €4.50 million):
 
【题干】Barbara Andrade is an equity analyst who covers the entertainment industry for
Greengable Capital Partners, a major global asset manager. Greengable owns a significant
position with a large unrealized capital gain in Mosely Broadcast Group (MBG). On a recent
conference call, MBG's management states that they plan to increase the proportion of debt in
the company's capital structure. Andrade is concerned that any changes in MBG's capital
structure will negatively affect the value of Greengable's investment.To evaluate the potential
impact of such a capital structure change on Greengable's investment, she gathers the
information about MBG given in Exhibit 1.
Andrade expects that an increase in MBG's financial leverage will increase its costs of debt
and equity. Based on an examination of similar companies in MBG's industry, Andrade estimates
MBG's cost of debt and cost of equity at various debt-to-total capital ratios, as shown in
Exhibit 2.
40.【单项选择题】MBG is best described as currently:
A.25% debt-financed and 75% equity-financed.
B.33% debt-financed and 66% equity-financed.
C.75% debt-financed and 25% equity-financed.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The market value of equity is ($30)(10,000,000) = $300,000,000. With the market
value of debt equal to $100,000,000, the market value of the company is $100,000,000
$300,000,000 = $400,000,000. Therefore, the company is $100,000,000/$400,000,000 = 0.25 or 25%
debt-financed.
 
41.【单项选择题】Holding operating earnings constant, an increase in the marginal tax rate to
40 percent would:
A.result in a lower cost of debt capital.
B.result in a higher cost of debt capital.
C.not affect the company's cost of capital.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The after-tax cost of debt decreases as the marginal tax rate increases.
 
42.【单项选择题】According to the pecking order theory, MBG’s announced capital structure
change may be optimal:
A.because debt is cheaper than equity on an after- tax basis.
B.if new equity is issued before new debt as a source of capital.
C.if new debt is issued after all internally generated funds are first used as sources of
capital.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】If internally generated funds have already been fully used, the use of new debt may
be optimal according to the pecking order theory of capital structure.
 
【题干】Josh Logan is a buy-side equity analyst who follows Durtech. Logan's supervisor
believes that Durtech is a likely takeover candidate and has asked Logan to estimate the
company's value per share in the event of an “all stock” takeover bid. Logan plans to
estimate Durtech's value per share using three approaches: discounted cash flow, comparable
company analysis, and comparable transaction analysis.Durtech has 1.2 million common shares
outstanding and no outstanding long-term debt or preferred stock. Logan estimates that
Durtech's free cash flows at the end of the next three years will be $5.0 million, $6.0
million, and $7.0 million, respectively. After Year 3, he projects that free cash flow will
grow at 5 percent per year. He determines the appropriate discount rate for this free cash flow
stream is 15 percent per year.
Applying discounted cash flow analysis to the preceding information, Logan determines that
Durtech’s fair enterprise value is $61.8 million. In a separate analysis based on ratios,
Logan estimates that at the end of the third year, Durtech will be worth 10 times its Year 3
free cash flow.Logan gathers data on two companies comparable to Durtech: Alphatech and
Betatech. He believes that price-to-earnings, price-to-sales, and price-to-book-value per share
of these companies should be used to value Durtech. The relevant data for the three companies
are given in Exhibit 1.
Logan also identifies one recent takeover transaction and analyzes its takeover premium (the
amount by which its takeover price per share exceeds its current stock price). Omegatech is
comparable to the possible transaction on Durtech. Omegatech had a stock price of $44.40 per
share prior to a newspaper report of a takeover rumor. After the takeover rumor was reported,
the price rose immediately to $60.30 per share. Eventually, the takeover offer was accepted by
Omegatech's shareholders for $55.00 per share. One-year trailing earnings per share for
Omegatech immediately prior to the takeover were $1.25 per share.
 
43.【单项选择题】Based on Exhibit 1 and the mean of each of the valuation ratios, Logan's
estimate of Durtech's value per share should be closest to:
A.$30.44.
B.$33.67.
C.$34.67.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
44.【单项选择题】Based upon the premium on a recent comparable transaction, Logan's best
estimate of the takeover premium for Durtech is closest to:
A.19.9%.
B.23.9%.
C.35.8%.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】A comparable transaction sells for premium of 55/44.4 – 1 = 23.9%.
45.【单项选择题】Using comparable transaction analysis, Logan's estimate of the fair
acquisition value per share for Durtech is closest to:
A.$35.52.
B.$42.59.
C.$44.00.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Omegatech's transaction P/E ratio: 55/1.25 = 44. So estimated fair acquisition
value per share is 44 × 1 = $44.00.
 
【题干】Maximilian Bohm is reviewing several capital budgeting proposals from subsidiaries of
his company. Although his reviews deal with several details that may seem like minutiae, the
company places a premium on the care it exercises in making its investment decisions.The first
proposal is a project for Richie Express, which is investing $500,000, all in fixed capital, in
a project that will have operating income after taxes of $20,000 and depreciation of $40,000
each year for the next three years. Richie Express will sell the asset in three years, paying
30 percent taxes on any excess of the selling price over book value. The proposal indicates
that a $647,500 terminal selling price will enable the company to earn a 15 percent internal
rate of return on the investment. Bohm doubts that this terminal value estimate is
correct.Another proposal concerns Gasup Company, which does natural gas exploration. A new
investment has been identified by the Gasup finance department with the following projected
cash flows:● Investment outlays are $6 million immediately and $1 million at the end of the
first year.● After-tax operating cash flows are $0.5 million at the end of the first year and
$4 million at the end of each of the second, third, fourth, and fifth years. In addition, an
after-tax outflow occurs at the end of the five-year project that has not been included in the
operating cash flows: $5 million required for environmental cleanup.● The required rate of
return on natural gas exploration is 18 percent.The Gasup analyst is unsure about the
calculation of the NPV and the IRR because the outlay is staged over two years.Finally,
Dominion Company is evaluating two mutually exclusive projects: The Pinto grinder involves an
outlay of $100,000, annual after-tax operating cash flows of $45,000, an after-tax salvage
value of $25,000, and a three-year life. The Bolten grinder has an outlay of $125,000, annual
after-tax operating cash flows of $47,000, an after-tax salvage value of $20,000, and a four-
year life. The required rate of return is 10 percent. The net present value (NPV) and
equivalent annual annuity (EAA) of the Pinto grinder are $30,691 and $12,341, respectively.
Whichever grinder is chosen, it will have to be replaced at the end of its service life. The
analyst is unsure about which grinder should be chosen.Bohm and his colleague Beth Goldberg
have an extended conversation about capital budgeting issues, including several comments listed
below. Goldberg makes two comments about real options:Comment 1“The abandonment option is
valuable, but it should be exercised only when the abandonment value is above the amount of the
original investment.”Comment 2“If the cost of a real option is less than its value, this will
increase the NPV of the investment project in which the real option is embedded.”Bohm also
makes several comments about specific projects under consideration:Comment AThe land and
building were purchased five years ago for $10 million. This is the amount that should now be
included in the fixed capital investment.”Comment B“We can improve the project's NPV by using
the after-tax cost of debt as the discount rate. If we finance the project with 100 percent
debt, this discount rate would be appropriate.”Comment C“It is generally safer to use the NPV
than the IRR in making capital budgeting decisions. However, when evaluating mutually exclusive
projects, if the projects have conventional cash flow patterns and have the same investment
outlays, it is acceptable to use either the NPV or IRR.”Comment D“You should not base a
capital budgeting decision on its immediate impact on earnings per share (EPS).”
 
46.【单项选择题】What terminal selling price is required for a 15 percent internal rate of
return on the Richie project?
A.$588,028.
B.$593,771.
C.$625,839.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The after-tax operating cash flow for each of the next three years is $20,000 +
$40,000 = $60,000. The book value in three years will be $380,000 (the original cost less three
years’ depreciation). So the terminal year after-tax non-operating cash flow will be
Sal<sub>3</sub>-0.3×(Sal<sub>3</sub>-$380,000), where Sal<sub>3</sub> is the selling price.
For a 15 percent return, the PV of future cash flows must equal the investment:
There are several paths to follow to solve for Sal<sub>3</sub>.
 
 
 
47.【单项选择题】The NPV and IRR, respectively, of the Gasup Company investment are closest to:
A.$509,600 and 21.4%.
B.$509,600 and 31.3%.
C.$946,700 and 31.3%.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The cash flows (in $ million) for the 5-year gas project are as follows:
Given the required rate of return of 18 percent, the NPV can be calculated with Equation 2 or
with a financial calculator:
Similarly, the IRR can be calculated from Equation 3:
Solving for r with a financial calculator or spreadsheet software will yield 21.4 percent for
the internal rate of return. Note that in spite of the fact that we are dealing with a
nonconventional cash flow pattern, the IRR has a unique solution. The NPV profile declines as
the required rate of return increases, and the NPV value crosses the x-axis (required rate of
return) only one time, at 21.4 percent.
 
 
48.【单项选择题】Of the two grinders that the Dominion Company is evaluating, B?hm should
recommend the:
A.Bolten grinder because its NPV is higher than the Pinto grinder NPV.
B.Bolten grinder because its EAA is higher than the Pinto grinder EAA.
C.Pinto grinder because its EAA is higher than the Bolten grinder EAA.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Because the mutually exclusive projects have unequal lives, the EAA should be used
instead of the NPV. The NPV and EAA for the Pinto grinder are correct. For the Bolten grinder,
the NPV is
To find the Bolten EAA, take the NPV for Bolten and annualize it for four years (N = 4, PV =
37,644, and i = 10%). The Bolten EAA is $11,876. Consequently, the Pinto grinder has the better
EAA of $12,341.
 
 
49.【单项选择题】Are Goldberg's comments about real options correct?
A.No for Comment 1 and Comment 2.
B.No for Comment 1 and Yes for Comment 2.
C.Yes for Comment 1 and No for Comment 2.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Goldberg’s first comment is wrong. A project should be abandoned in the future
only when its abandonment value is more than the discounted value of the remaining cash flows.
Goldberg’s second comment is correct.
 
50.【单项选择题】Is Bohm most likely correct regarding Comment A about the $10 million
investment and Comment B about using the after-tax cost of debt?
A.No for both comments.
B.Yes for both comments.
C.No for Comment A and Yes for Comment B.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The $10 million original cost is a sunk cost and not relevant. The correct
investment is today’s opportunity cost, the market value today. The correct discount rate is
the project required rate of return.
 
51.【单项选择题】Is Bohm most likely correct regarding Comment C that it is acceptable to use
either NPV or IRR and Comment D about the immediate impact on EPS?
A.No for both comments.
B.Yes for both comments.
C.No for Comment C and Yes for Comment D.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Even if they are the same size, a short-term project with a high IRR can have a
lower NPV than a longer-term project. The immediate impact on EPS does not capture the full
effect of the cash flows over the project’s entire life.
 
【题干】Mei Yang is head of analyst recruiting for PPA Securities. She has been very frustrated
by the number of job applicants who, in spite of their stellar pedigrees, seem to have little
understanding of basic financial concepts. Yang has written a set of conceptual questions and
simple problems for the human resources department to use to screen for the better candidates
in the applicant pool. A few of her corporate finance questions and problems follow.Concept
1“A company invests in depreciable assets, financed partly by issuing fixed rate bonds. If
inflation is lower than expected, the value of the real tax savings from depreciation and the
value of the real after-tax interest expense are both reduced.”Concept 2“Sensitivity analysis
and scenario analysis are useful tools for estimating the impact on a project’s NPV of
changing the value of one capital budgeting input variable at a time.”Concept 3“When
comparing two mutually exclusive projects with unequal lives, the IRR is a good approach for
choosing the better project because it does not require equal lives.”Concept 4“Project
specific betas should be used instead of company betas whenever the risk of the project differs
from that of the company.”Problem“Bo Gansu Electronics Co., Ltd. is investing CNY100 in a
project that is being depreciated straight line to zero over a two- year life with no salvage
value. The project will generate earnings before interest and taxes of CNY50 each year for two
years. Bo Gansu Company’s weighted average cost of capital and required rate of return for the
project are both 12%, and its tax rate is 30%.”
 
52.【单项选择题】For Concept 1, the statement is correct regarding the effects on:
A.the real tax savings from depreciation, but incorrect regarding the real after-tax interest
expense.
B.both the real tax savings from depreciation and the real after-tax interest expense.
C.neither the real tax savings from depreciation nor the real after-tax interest expense.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The value of the depreciation tax savings is increased, and the value of the real
after-tax interest expense is also increased. Due to the lower inflation, the value has
increased (essentially discounting at a lower rate).
 
53.【单项选择题】For Concept 2, the statement is correct regarding:
A.sensitivity analysis, but not correct regarding scenario analysis.
B.scenario analysis, but not correct regarding sensitivity analysis.
C.both sensitivity analysis and scenario analysis.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The statement is correct for sensitivity analysis, but not for scenario analysis
(in which several input variables are changed for each scenario).
 
54.【单项选择题】Are the statements identified as Concept 3 and Concept 4 correct?
A.No for Concepts 3 and 4.
B.No for Concept 3, but yes for Concept 4.
C.Yes for Concept 3, but no for Concept 4.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Either the least-common multiple of lives or the equivalent annual annuity approach
should be used (both use the NPV, not the IRR). Concept 4 is correct as given.
 
55.【单项选择题】The after-tax operating cash flows in euros for the Fontenot Company are:
A.CNY 50 in both years.
B.CNY 70 in both years.
C.CNY 85 in both years.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The problem gives EBIT not EBITDA.
 
【题干】Nanjing Techno Group is considering the purchase of a new 60-ton stamping press. The
press costs CNY360,000, and an additional CNY40,000 is needed to install it. The press will be
depreciated straight line to zero over a five- year life. The press will generate no additional
revenues, but it will reduce cash operating expenses by CNY140,000 annually. The press will be
sold for CNY120,000 after five years. An inventory investment of CNY60,000 is required during
the life of the investment. Nanjing Techno is in the 40% tax bracket.
 
56.【单项选择题】What is the Nanjing Techno net investment outlay?
A.CNY400,000.
B.CNY420,000.
C.CNY460,000.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The investment outlay is
 
 
 
57.【单项选择题】Nanjing Techno’s incremental annual after- tax operating cash flow is closest
to:
A.CNY116,000.
B.CNY124,000.
C.CNY140,000.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Depreciation will be 400,000/5 = 80,000 per year. The annual after-tax operating
cash flow is
 
 
 
58.【单项选择题】What is the terminal year after-tax non-operating cash flow at the end of year
five?
A.CNY108,000.
B.CNY132,000.
C.CNY180,000.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】The terminal year non-operating cash flow is
 
【题干】Lindsay White, CFA, is an analyst with a firm in London, England. She is responsible
for covering five companies in the Consumer Staples industry. White believes the domestic and
global economies will grow slightly below average over the next two years, but she is also
concerned about the possibility of a mild recession taking hold. She has been asked to review
the companies that she covers, and she has collected information about them, presented in
Exhibit 1. White has estimated that earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) will remain
constant for all five companies for the foreseeable future. Currency is in terms of the British
pound (￡).The marginal corporate tax rate is 30% for all five companies.
Based on conversations with management of the five companies, as well as on her own independent
research and analysis, White notes the following:Aquarius:● has lower bonding costs than does
Bema.● has a higher percentage of tangible assets to total assets than does Bema.● has a
higher degree of operating leverage than does Bema.Garth:● invests significantly less in
research and development than does Holte.● has a more highly developed corporate governance
system than does Holte.● has more business risk than does Holte.In addition, White has reached
various conclusions regarding announcements by Bema, Garth, and Vega:Announcement Bema has
announced that it will issue debt and use the proceeds to repurchase shares. As a result of
this debt-financed share repurchase program, Bema indicates that its debt/equity ratio will
increase to 0.6 and its before-tax cost of debt will be 6%.Conclusion As a result of the
announced program, Bema's total market value should decrease relative to
Aquarius's.Announcement Garth has announced that it plans to abandon the prior policy of all-
equity financing by the issuance of ￡1 million in debt in order to buy back an equivalent
amount of equity. Garth's before-tax cost of debt is 6%.Conclusion This change in capital
structure is reasonable, but Garth should take care subsequently to maintain a lower D/E ratio
than Holte.Announcement Vega has announced that it intends to raise capital next year, but is
unsure of the appropriate method of raising capital.Conclusion White has concluded that Vega
should apply the pecking order theory to determine the appropriate method of raising capital.
 
59.【单项选择题】Based on Exhibit 1 and White's notes, which of the following is most
consistent with White's conclusion regarding Garth's announcement?
A.Garth has more business risk than does Holte.
B.Garth invests significantly less in research and development than does Holte.
C.Garth has a more highly developed corporate governance system than does Holte.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The statement implies that Garth possesses a lower ability to assume debt than does
Holte, all else being equal.
 
60.【单项选择题】Based on White's conclusion regarding determining the appropriate method of
raising capital, Vega should raise capital in the following order:
A.debt, internal financing, equity.
B.equity, debt, internal financing.
C.internal financing, debt, equity.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】According to the pecking order theory, managers prefer internal financing. If
internal financing is not sufficient, managers next prefer debt, and finally equity.
 
【题干】Geet Patel is a sell- side analyst who covers the pharmaceutical industry. One of the
companies she follows, PRT-Assam Pharma, is evaluating a regional distribution center. The
financial predictions for the capital project are as follows:● Fixed capital outlay is INR1.50
billion.● Investment in net working capital is INR0.40 billion.● Straight-line depreciation
is over a six-year period with zero salvage value.● Project life is 12 years.● Additional
annual revenues are INR0.10 billion.● Annual cash operating expenses are reduced by INR0.25
billion.● The capital equipment is sold for INR0.50 billion in 12 years.● Tax rate is 40
percent.● Required rate of return is 12 percent.Simpson is evaluating this investment to see
whether it has the potential to affect Bayonne Pharma's stock price.Simpson estimates the NPV
of the project to be INR0.41 billion, which should increase the value of the company.Simpson is
evaluating the effects of other changes to her capital budgeting assumptions. She wants to know
the effect of a switch from straight-line to accelerated depreciation on the company's
operating income and the project's NPV. She also believes that the initial outlay might be much
smaller than initially assumed. Specifically, she thinks the outlay for fixed capital might be
INR0.24 billion lower, with no change in salvage value.When reviewing her work, Simpson's
supervisor provides the following comments. “I note that you are relying heavily on the NPV
approach to valuing the investment decision. I don't think you should use an IRR because of the
multiple IRR problem that is likely to arise with the Bayonne Pharma project. However, the
equivalent annual annuity would be a more appropriate measure to use for the project than the
NPV. I suggest that you compute an EAA.”
 
61.【单项选择题】Simpson should estimate the after-tax operating cash flow for Years 1–6 and
7–12, respectively, to be closest to:
A.€0.31 billion and €0.21 billion.
B.€0.31 billion and €0.25 billion.
C.€0.35 billion and €0.25 billion.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The annual depreciation charge for Years 1–6 is 1.5/6 = 0.25. Annual after-tax
operating cash flows for Years 1–6 are:
Annual after-tax operating cash flows for Years 7–12 are:
 
 
 
62.【单项选择题】Simpson should estimate the initial outlay and the terminal year non-operating
cash flow, respectively, to be closest to:
A.€1.50 billion and €0.70 billion.
B.€1.90 billion and €0.70 billion.
C.€1.90 billion and €0.90 billion.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Outlay at time zero is:
Terminal year after-tax non-operating cash flow is
 
 
 
63.【单项选择题】Is Simpson's estimate of the NPV of the project correct?
A.Yes.
B.No. The NPV is –€0.01 billion.
C.No. The NPV is €0.34 billion.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】期初投资-1.9，1-6年ATOCF是0.31，7-12年ATOCF是0.21，12年终值是0.7，NPV用计算器计算得
出，等于-0.01。
 
64.【单项选择题】A switch from straight-line to accelerated depreciation would:
A.increase the NPV and decrease the first year operating income after taxes.
B.increase the first year operating income after taxes and decrease the NPV.
C.increase both the NPV and first year operating income after taxes.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Accelerated depreciation shifts depreciation expense toward the earlier years so
that first-year operating income after taxes will be lower. However, because depreciation is a
noncash expense, it must be added back to operating income after taxes in order to obtain
after-tax operating cash flow. This process shifts cash flows from later years to earlier
years, increasing the NPV.
 
65.【单项选择题】If the outlay is lower by the amount that Simpson suggests, the project NPV
should increase by an amount closestto:
A.€0.09 billion.
B.€0.14 billion.
C.€0.17 billion.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The outlay is lower by €0.24, which will decrease the annual depreciation by
€0.04 for the first six years. The annual additional taxes from the loss of the depreciation
tax shelter are €0.04(0.40) = €0.016. The after-tax cash flows are higher by €0.24 at time
zero (because of the smaller investment) and lower by €0.016 for the first six years. The NPV
increases by:
 
 
 
66.【单项选择题】How would you evaluate the comments by Simpson's supervisor about not using
the IRR and about using the EAA? The supervisor is:
A.incorrect about both.
B.correct about IRR and incorrect about EAA.
C.incorrect about IRR and correct about EAA.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Both of the supervisor's comments are incorrect. Because the Bayonne Pharma project
is a conventional project (an outflow followed by inflows), the multiple IRR problem cannot
occur. The EAA is preferred over the NPV when dealing with mutually exclusive projects with
differing lives, a scenario which is not relevant for this decision. The Bayonne Pharma project
is free-standing, so the NPV approach is appropriate.
