Asset Allocation
共享题干题
【题干】Megan Beade and Hanna Müller are senior analysts for a large, multi-divisional money
management firm. Beade supports the institutional portfolio managers, and Müller does the same
for the private wealth portfolio managers.Beade reviews the asset allocation in Exhibit 1,
derived from a mean–variance optimization (MVO) model for an institutional client, noting that
details of the MVO are lacking.
The firm’s policy is to rebalance a portfolio when the asset class weight falls outside of a
corridor around the target allocation. The width of each corridor is customized for each client
and proportional to the target allocation. Beade recommends wider corridor widths for high-risk
asset classes, narrower corridor widths for less liquid asset classes, and narrower corridor
widths for taxable clients with high capital gains tax rates.One client sponsors a defined
benefit pension plan where the present value of the liabilities is $241 million and the market
value of plan assets is $205 million. Beade expects interest rates to rise and both the present
value of plan liabilities and the market value of plan assets to decrease by $25 million,
changing the pension plan’s funding ratio.Beade uses a surplus optimization approach to
liability-relative asset allocation based on the objective functionU_m^LR=E(Rs,m) -
0.005λσ2(Rs,m)where E(Rs,m) is the expected surplus return for portfolio m, λ is the risk
aversion coefficient, and σ2(Rs,m) is the variance of the surplus return. Beade establishes
the expected surplus return and surplus variance for three different asset allocations, shown
in Exhibit 2. Given λ = 1.50, she chooses the optimal asset mix.
Client Haunani Kealoha has a large fixed obligation due in 10 years. Beade assesses that
Kealoha has substantially more funds than are required to meet the fixed obligation. The client
wants to earn a competitive risk-adjusted rate of return while maintaining a high level of
certainty that there will be sufficient assets to meet the fixed obligation.In the private
wealth area, the firm has designed five subportfolios with differing asset allocations that are
used to fund different client goals over a five-year horizon. Exhibit 3 shows the expected
returns and volatilities of the subportfolios and the probabilities that the subportfolios will
exceed an expected minimum return. Client Luis Rodríguez wants to satisfy two goals. Goal 1
requires a conservative portfolio providing the highest possible minimum return that will be
met at least 95% of the time. Goal 2 requires a riskier portfolio that provides the highest
minimum return that will be exceeded at least 85% of the time.
Müller uses a risk parity asset allocation approach with a client’s four–asset class
portfolio. The expected return of the domestic bond asset class is the lowest of the asset
classes, and the returns of the domestic bond asset class have the lowest covariance with other
asset class returns. Müller estimates the weight that should be placed on domestic bonds.Müller
and a client discuss other approaches to asset allocation that are not based on optimization
models or goals-based models. Müller makes the following comments to the client:
Comment 1：An advantage of the “120 minus your age” heuristic over the 60/40 stock/bond
heuristic is that it incorporates an age-based stock/bond allocation.
Comment 2:The Yale model emphasizes traditional investments and a commitment to active
management.
Comment 3:A client’s asset allocation using the 1/N rule depends on the investment
characteristics of each asset class.
 
1.【单项选择题】The asset allocation in Exhibit 1 most likely resulted from a mean–variance
optimization using:
A.historical data.
B.reverse optimization.
C.Black–Litterman inputs.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The allocations in Exhibit 1 are most likely from an MVO model using historical
data inputs. MVO tends to result in asset allocations that are concentrated in a subset of the
available asset classes. The allocations in Exhibit 1 have heavy concentrations in four of the
asset classes and no investment in the other four asset classes, and the weights differ greatly
from global market weights. Compared to the use of historical inputs, the Black–Litterman and
reverse-optimization models most likely would be less concentrated in a few asset classes and
less distant from the global weights.
 
2.【单项选择题】For clients concerned about rebalancing-related transactions costs, which of
Beade’s suggested changes in the corridor width of the rebalancing policy is correct? The
change with respect to:
A.high-risk asset classes.
B.less liquid asset classes.
C.taxable clients with high capital gains tax rates.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Theoretically, higher-risk assets would warrant a narrow corridor because high-risk
assets are more likely to stray from the desired strategic asset allocation. However, narrow
corridors will likely result in more frequent rebalancing and increased transaction costs, so
in practice corridor width is often specified to be proportionally greater the higher the asset
class’s volatility. Thus, higher-risk assets should have a wider corridor to avoid frequent,
costly rebalancing costs. Her other suggestions are not correct. Less-liquid asset classes
should have a wider, not narrower, corridor width. Less-liquid assets should have a wider
corridor to avoid frequent rebalancing costs. For taxable investors, transactions trigger
capital gains in jurisdictions that tax them. For such investors, higher tax rates on capital
gains should be associated with wider (not narrower) corridor widths.
3.【单项选择题】Based on Beade’s interest rate expectations, the pension plan’s funding ratio
will:
A.decrease.
B.remain unchanged.
C.increase.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The original funding ratio is the market value of assets divided by the present
value of liabilities. This plan’s ratio is $205 million/$241 million = 0.8506. When the assets
and liabilities both decrease by $25 million, the funding ratio will decrease to $180
million/$216 million = 0.8333.
 
4.【单项选择题】Based on Exhibit 2, which portfolio provides the greatest objective function
expected value?
A.Portfolio 1
B.Portfolio 2
C.Portfolio 3
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
5.【单项选择题】The asset allocation approach most appropriate for client Kealoha is best
described as:
A.a surplus optimization approach.
B.an integrated asset–liability approach.
C.a hedging/return-seeking portfolios approach.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The hedging/return-seeking portfolios approach is best for this client. Beade
should construct two portfolios, one that includes riskless bonds that will pay off the fixed
obligation in 10 years and the other a risky portfolio that earns a competitive risk-adjusted
return. This approach is a simple two-step process of hedging the fixed obligation and then
investing the balance of the assets in a return-seeking portfolio.
 
6.【单项选择题】Based on Exhibit 3, which subportfolios best meet the two goals expressed by
client Rodríguez?
A.Subportfolio A for Goal 1 and Subportfolio C for Goal 2.
B.Subportfolio B for Goal 1 and Subportfolio C for Goal 2.
C.Subportfolio E for Goal 1 and Subportfolio A for Goal 2.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Goal 1 requires a success rate of at least 95%, and Subportfolio A has the highest
minimum expected return (2.05%) meeting this requirement. Goal 2 requires the highest minimum
expected return that will be achieved 85% of the time. Subportfolio C meets this requirement
(and has a minimum expected return of 3.26%).
 
7.【单项选择题】In the risk parity asset allocation approach that Müller uses, the weight that
Müller places on domestic bonds should be:
A.less than 25%.
B.equal to 25%.
C.greater than 25%.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
In this example, there are four asset classes, and the variance of the total portfolio is
assumed to be 25%; therefore, using a risk parity approach, the allocation to each asset class
is expected to contribute (1/4 × 25%) = 6.25% of the total variance. Because bonds have the
lowest covariance, they must have a higher relative weight to achieve the same contribution to
risk as the other asset classes.
 
8.【单项选择题】Which of Müller’s comments about the other approaches to asset allocation is
correct?
A.Comment 1
B.Comment 2
C.Comment 3
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Comment 1 is correct because the “120 minus your age” rule reduces the equity
allocation as the client ages, while the 60/40 rule makes no such adjustment. Comments 2 and 3
are not correct. The Yale model emphasizes investing in alternative assets (such as hedge
funds, private equity, and real estate) as opposed to investing in traditional asset classes
(such as stock and bonds). The 1/N rule allocates an equal weight to each asset without regard
to its investment characteristics, treating all assets as indistinguishable in terms of mean
returns, volatility, and correlations.
 
【题干】Meg and Cramer Law, a married couple aged 42 and 44, respectively, are meeting with
their new investment adviser, Daniel Raye. The Laws have worked their entire careers at Whorton
Solutions (WS), a multinational technology company. The Laws have two teenage children who will
soon begin college.Raye reviews the Laws’ current financial position. The Laws have an
investment portfolio consisting of $800,000 in equities and $450,000 in fixed-income
instruments. Raye notes that 80% of the equity portfolio consists of shares of WS. The Laws
also own real estate valued at $400,000, with $225,000 in mortgage debt. Raye estimates the
Laws’ pre-retirement earnings from WS have a total present value of $1,025,000. He estimates
the Laws’ future expected consumption expenditures have a total present value of $750,000.The
Laws express a very strong desire to fund their children’s college education expenses, which
have an estimated present value of $275,000. The Laws also plan to fund an endowment at their
alma mater in 20 years, which has an estimated present value of $500,000. The Laws tell Raye
they want a high probability of success funding the endowment. Raye uses this information to
prepare an economic balance sheet for the Laws.In reviewing a financial plan written by the
Laws’ previous adviser, Raye notices the following asset class specifications.Equity: US
equities;Debt: Global investment-grade corporate bonds and real estate;Derivatives: Primarily
large-capitalization foreign equities.The previous adviser’s report notes the asset class
returns on equity and derivatives are highly correlated. The report also notes the asset class
returns on debt have a low correlation with equity and derivative returns.Raye is concerned
that the asset allocation approach followed by the Laws’ previous financial adviser resulted
in an overlap in risk factors among asset classes for the portfolio. Raye plans to address this
by examining the portfolio’s sensitivity to various risk factors, such as inflation,
liquidity, and volatility, to determine the desired exposure to each factor.Raye concludes that
a portfolio of 75% global equities and 25% bonds reflects an appropriate balance of expected
return and risk for the Laws with respect to a 20-year time horizon for most moderately
important goals. Raye recommends the Laws follow a goals-based approach to asset allocation and
offers three possible portfolios for the Laws to consider. Selected data on the three
portfolios are presented in Exhibit 1.
Raye uses a cost–benefit approach to rebalancing and recommends that global equities have a
wider rebalancing range than the other asset classes.
 
9.【单项选择题】Using the economic balance sheet approach, the Laws’ economic net worth is
closest to:
A.$925,000.
B.$1,425,000.
C.$1,675,000.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
Economic net worth is equal to total economic assets minus total economic liabilities
($2,675,000 – $1,750,000 = $925,000).
 
10.【单项选择题】Using an economic balance sheet, which of the Laws’ current financial assets
is most concerning from an asset allocation perspective?
A.Equities.
B.Real estate.
C.Fixed income.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The Laws’ equity portfolio is heavily concentrated in WS stock (80% of the equity
portfolio), and both Laws work at WS. Should WS encounter difficult economic circumstances, the
investment value of WS stock and the Laws’ human capital are both likely to be adversely
affected. Thus, their investment in WS should be reviewed and their equity portfolio
diversified further.
 
11.【单项选择题】Raye believes the previous adviser’s specification for debt is incorrect
given that, for purposes of asset allocation, asset classes should be:
A.diversifying.
B.mutually exclusive.
C.relatively homogeneous.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】In order to effectively specify asset classes for the purpose of asset allocation,
assets within an asset class should be relatively homogeneous and have similar attributes. The
previous adviser’s specification of the debt asset class includes global investment-grade
corporate bonds and real estate. This definition results in a non-homogeneous asset class.
 
12.【单项选择题】Raye believes the previous adviser’s asset class specifications for equity
and derivatives are inappropriate given that, for purposes of asset allocation, asset classes
should be:
A.diversifying.
B.mutually exclusive.
C.relatively homogeneous.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】For risk control purposes, an asset class should be diversifying and should not
have extremely high expected correlations with other classes. Because the returns to the equity
and the derivatives asset classes are noted as being highly correlated, inclusion of both asset
classes will result in duplication of risk exposure. Including both asset classes is not
diversifying to the asset allocation.
 
13.【单项选择题】To address his concern regarding the previous adviser’s asset allocation
approach, Raye should assess the Laws’ portfolio using:
A.a homogeneous and mutually exclusive asset class–based risk analysis.
B.a multifactor risk model to control systematic risk factors in asset allocation.
C.an asset class–based asset allocation approach to construct a diversified portfolio.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Raye believes the Laws’ previous financial adviser followed an asset allocation
approach that resulted in an overlap in risk factors among asset classes. A multifactor risk
model approach can be used to address potential risk factor overlaps. Risk factor approaches to
asset allocation focus on assigning investments to the investor’s desired exposures to
specified risk factors. These methods are premised on the observation that asset classes often
exhibit some overlaps in sources of risk.
 
14.【单项选择题】Based on Exhibit 1, which portfolio best meets the Laws’ education goal for
their children?
A.Portfolio 1
B.Portfolio 2
C.Portfolio 3
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Portfolio 1 best meets the Laws’ education goal for their children. The estimated
present value of the Laws’ expected education expense is $275,000. Given that the children
will be starting college soon, and the Laws have a very strong desire to achieve this goal,
Portfolio 1, which stresses liquidity and stability, is most appropriate to meet the Laws’
short-term education goal.
 
15.【单项选择题】Based on Exhibit 1, which portfolio best meets the Laws’ goal to fund an
endowment for their alma mater?
A.Portfolio 1
B.Portfolio 2
C.Portfolio 3
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Portfolio 2 best meets the Laws’ goal to fund an endowment for their alma mater in
20 years. In present value terms, the gift is valued at $500,000, with the Laws desiring a high
probability of achieving this goal. Although slightly more conservative than the 75/25 global
equity/bond mix, Portfolio 2 has a greater growth emphasis compared with Portfolios 1 and 3.
Therefore, Portfolio 2 is best for funding the endowment at their alma mater given the goal’s
long-term horizon and the Laws’ desire for a high probability of achieving it.
 
16.【单项选择题】Raye’s approach to rebalancing global equities is consistent with:
A.the Laws’ being risk averse.
B.global equities’ having higher transaction costs than other asset classes.
C.global equities’ having lower correlations with other asset classes.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Using the cost–benefit approach, higher transaction costs for an asset class imply
wider rebalancing ranges. Raye’s recommendation for a wider rebalancing range for global
equities is consistent with the presence of higher transaction costs for global equities.
 
【题干】Elsbeth Quinn and Dean McCall are partners at Camel Asset Management (CAM). Quinn
advises high-net-worth individuals, and McCall specializes in retirement plans for
institutions.Quinn meets with Neal and Karina Martin, both age 44. The Martins plan to retire
at age 62. Twenty percent of the Martins’ $600,000 in financial assets is held in cash and
earmarked for funding their daughter Lara’s university studies, which begin in one year.
Lara’s education and their own retirement are the Martins’ highest-priority goals. Last week,
the Martins learned that Lara was awarded a four-year full scholarship for university. Quinn
reviews how the scholarship might affect the Martins’ asset allocation strategy.The Martins
have assets in both taxable and tax-deferred accounts. For baseline retirement needs, Quinn
recommends that the Martins maintain their current overall 60% equity/40% bonds (± 8%
rebalancing range) strategic asset allocation. Quinn calculates that given current financial
assets and expected future earnings, the Martins could reduce future retirement savings by 15%
and still comfortably retire at 62. The Martins wish to allocate that 15% to a sub-portfolio
with the goal of making a charitable gift to their alma mater from their estate. Although the
gift is a low-priority goal, the Martins want the sub-portfolio to earn the highest return
possible. Quinn promises to recommend an asset allocation strategy for the Martins’
aspirational goal.Next, Quinn discusses taxation of investments with the Martins. Their
interest income is taxed at 35%, and capital gains and dividends are taxed at 20%. The Martins
want to minimize taxes. Based on personal research, Neal makes the following two
statements:Statement 1: The after-tax return volatility of assets held in taxable accounts will
be less than the pre-tax return volatility.Statement 2: Assets that receive more favorable tax
treatment should be held in tax-deferred accounts.The equity portion of the Martins’
portfolios produced an annualized return of 20% for the past three years. As a result, the
Martins’ equity allocation in both their taxable and tax-deferred portfolios has increased to
71%, with bonds falling to 29%. The Martins want to keep the strategic asset allocation risk
levels the same in both types of retirement portfolios. Quinn discusses rebalancing; however,
Neal is somewhat reluctant to take money out of stocks, expressing confidence that strong
investment returns will continue.Quinn’s CAM associate, McCall, meets with Bruno Snead, the
director of the Katt Company Pension Fund (KCPF). The strategic asset allocation for the fund
is 65% stocks/35% bonds. Because of favorable returns during the past eight recession-free
years, the KCPF is now overfunded. However, there are early signs of the economy weakening.
Since Katt Company is in a cyclical industry, the Pension Committee is concerned about future
market and economic risk and fears that the high-priority goal of maintaining a fully funded
status may be adversely affected. McCall suggests to Snead that the KCPF might benefit from an
updated IPS. Following a thorough review, McCall recommends a new IPS and strategic asset
allocation.The proposed IPS revisions include a plan for short-term deviations from strategic
asset allocation targets. The goal is to benefit from equity market trends by automatically
increasing (decreasing) the allocation to equities by 5% whenever the S&P 500 Index 50-day
moving average crosses above (below) the 200-day moving average.
 
17.【单项选择题】Given the change in funding of Lara’s education, the Martins’ strategic
asset allocation would most likely decrease exposure to:
A.cash.
B.bonds.
C.equities.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The changing character of liabilities through time affects the asset allocation to
fund those liabilities. The Martins’ investment horizon for some of their assets has changed.
The amount of liquidity needed for Lara’s near-term education has been greatly reduced owing
to the receipt of the scholarship. The Martins will likely still have to pay for some
university-related expenses; however, a large part of the $120,000 in cash that is earmarked
for Lara’s expenses can now be allocated to the Martins’ long-term goal of early retirement.
Retirement is 18 years away, much longer than the one- to five-year horizon for university
expenses. Therefore, the Martins’ allocation to cash would likely decrease.
 
18.【单项选择题】The most appropriate asset allocation for the Martins’ new charitable gift
sub-portfolio is:
A.40% equities/60% bonds.
B.70% equities/30% bonds.
C.100% equities/0% bonds.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The Martins’ sub-portfolio is aspirational and a low priority. Investors are
usually willing to take more risk on lower-priority, aspirational portfolios. The charitable
gift will be made from their estate, which indicates a long time horizon. In addition, the
Martins want the highest return possible. Therefore, the highest allocation to equities is most
appropriate.
 
19.【单项选择题】Which of Neal’s statements regarding the taxation of investments is correct?
A.Statement 1 only.
B.Statement 2 only.
C.Both Statement 1 and Statement 2.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Taxes alter the distribution of returns by both reducing the expected mean return
and muting the dispersion of returns. The portion of an owner’s taxable assets that are
eligible for lower tax rates and deferred capital gains tax treatment should first be allocated
to the investor’s taxable accounts.
 
20.【单项选择题】Given the Martins’ risk and tax preferences, the taxable portfolio should be
rebalanced:
A.less often than the tax-deferred portfolio.
B.as often as the tax-deferred portfolio.
C.more often than the tax-deferred portfolio.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The Martins wish to maintain the same risk level for both retirement accounts based
on their strategic asset allocation. However, more frequent rebalancing exposes the taxable
asset owner to realized taxes that could have otherwise been deferred or even avoided.
Rebalancing is discretionary, and the Martins’ also wish to minimize taxes. Because after-tax
return volatility is lower than pre-tax return volatility, it takes larger asset-class
movements to materially alter the risk profile of a taxable portfolio. This suggests that
rebalancing ranges for a taxable portfolio can be wider than those of a tax-exempt/tax-deferred
portfolio with a similar risk profile; thus, rebalancing occurs less frequently.
 
21.【单项选择题】During the rebalancing discussion, which behavioral bias does Neal exhibit?
A.Framing bias.
B.Loss aversion.
C.Representative bias.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Representative, or recency, bias is the tendency to overweight the importance of
the most recent observations and information relative to a longer-dated or more comprehensive
set of long-term observations and information. Return chasing is a common result of this bias,
and it results in overweighting asset classes with strong recent performance.
 
22.【单项选择题】Given McCall’s IPS recommendation, the most appropriate new strategic asset
allocation for the KCPF is:
A.40% stocks/60% bonds.
B.65% stocks/35% bonds.
C.75% stocks/25% bonds.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】McCall recommends a new IPS. Changes in the economic environment and capital market
expectations or changes in the beliefs of committee members are factors that may lead to an
altering of the principles that guide investment activities. Because the plan is now
overfunded, there is less need to take a higher level of equity risk. The Pension Committee is
concerned about the impact of future market and economic risks on the funding status of the
plan. Katt Company operates in a cyclical industry and could have difficulty making pension
contributions during a recession. Therefore, a substantial reduction in the allocation to
stocks and an increase in bonds reduce risk. The 40% stocks/60% bonds alternative increases the
allocation to bonds from 35% to 60%. Increasing the fixed-income allocation should moderate
plan risk, provide a better hedge for liabilities, and reduce contribution uncertainty.
 
23.【单项选择题】The proposal for short-term adjustments to the KCPF asset allocation strategy
is known as:
A.de-risking.
B.systematic tactical asset allocation.
C.discretionary tactical asset allocation.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Using rules-based, quantitative signals, systematic tactical asset allocation (TAA)
attempts to capture asset-class-level return anomalies that have been shown to have some
predictability and persistence. Trend signals are widely used in systematic TAA. A moving-
average crossover is a trend signal that indicates an upward (downward) trend when the moving
average of the shorter time frame, 50 days, is above (below) the moving average of the longer
time frame, 200 days.
